---
title: Tasks
description: What are Tasks and how to use them.
---

## What is a Task?

> A Task is a **defined piece of work** assigned to agents, characterized by:
>
> - Clear Instructions: Details exactly what needs to be accomplished.
> - Defined Outcome: Specifies the expected result upon completion.
> - Assigned Responsibility: Allocated to a specific agent equipped to handle the task.
>
> Tasks are essential in organizing efforts and driving projects towards successful outcomes.

## Creating a Task

To create a task, you start by initializing an instance of the `Task` class with the necessary properties. Here's how you can do it:

```js
import { Task } from 'agenticjs';

const searchTask = new Task({
    description: 'Search for detailed information about the sports query: {sportsQuery}.',
    expectedOutput: `Detailed information about the sports event, 
    including key players, key moments, 
    final score, and other useful information.`,
    agent: searchAgent  // Ensure searchAgent is defined and imported if needed
});
```

This example demonstrates how to define a task with a clear description, expected outcomes, and an associated agent responsible for its execution.


## Task Attributes

#### `title` (optional)
The title of the task, which can be used as a concise summary or label.
- **Type:** String
- **Example:** *Update Client Data*
- **Default:** *'' (empty string)*

#### `description`
Describes what the task entails and the work to be performed.
- **Type:** String
- **Example:** *Search for detailed information about the sports query.*

#### `expectedOutput`
Specifies the anticipated result or product from completing the task.
- **Type:** String
- **Example:** *Detailed report including key players, key moments, and final score.*

#### `isDeliverable`
Specifies if the task outcome should be considered a final deliverable. Typically, AgenticJS treats the result of the last task as the deliverable, but this can be set to true for tasks whose results are critical at other stages.
- **Type:** Boolean
- **Example:** *true*
- **Default:** *false*

#### `agent`
The agent assigned to execute the task.
- **Type:** `Agent`
- **Example:** *Refer to a specific Agent object instance, such as `searchAgent`.*

#### `status`
Indicates the current operational state of the task. This property is read-only and provides insights into the task's lifecycle.
- **Type:** Enum (Read-only)
- **Example:** *[TODO, DOING, BLOCKED, REVISE, DONE]*
- **Enum Defined At:** [Tasks Status Definitions](https://github.com/AI-Champions/AgenticJS/blob/main/src/utils/enums.js#L47)

#### `id`
A unique identifier for the task, autogenerated by the system. This property is read-only.
- **Type:** String (Read-only)
- **Example:** `"579db4dd-deea-4e09-904d-a436a38e65cf"`


## Conclusion

Tasks drive the actions of agents in AgenticJS. By clearly defining tasks and their expected outcomes, you help AI agents work efficiently, whether alone or in teams. Understanding how tasks are carried out ensures that agents are well-prepared and that tasks are completed correctly.

:::tip[We Love Feedback!]
Is there something unclear or quirky in the docs? Maybe you have a suggestion or spotted an issue? Help us refine and enhance our documentation by [submitting an issue on GitHub](https://github.com/AI-Champions/AgenticJS/issues). We’re all ears!
:::